# Problems

## A - From Project Euler

### prolblem 1
If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.
Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

### problem 2
Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

### problem 3
The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.
What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?

## B - Recap - basics

1. Write a program that prints ‘Hello World’ to the screen.
2. Write a program that asks the user for their name and greets them with their name.
3. Modify the previous program such that only the users Alice and Bob are greeted with their names.
4. Write a program that asks the user for a number n and prints the sum of the numbers 1 to n
5. Modify the previous program such that only multiples of three or five are considered in the sum, e.g. 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12, 15 for n=17
6. Write a program that asks the user for a number n and gives them the possibility to choose between computing the sum and computing the product of 1,…,n.


## C - Recap - lists and strings

1. Write a function that returns the largest element in a list.
2. Write function that reverses a list, preferably in place.
3. Write a function that checks whether an element occurs in a list.
4. Write a function that returns the elements on odd positions in a list.
5. Write a function that computes the running total of a list.
6. Write a function that tests whether a string is a palindrome.
